In this video we're going to be
using the buffer tool, so let's
just make sure we have the
layers that we need in our
layers list.
So first of all, we can get rid
of the proposed no take zone for
the spawning months that doesn't
have the boundaries dissolved.
So it's this pink one here.
So we're going to remove that.
So let's right click and click
remove.
And then we also need to make
sure that we've added in this
oil rig layer as this is what
we're going to be running the
buffer tool on.
So now let's get up the buffer
tool window.
We'll go into the processing
toolbox and type in buffer and
it's under the vector geometry
toolbox.
It's just called buffer.
So it's this one here.
The first thing we need to
choose is our input layer.
So what we want to create a
buffer around and that's going
to be the oil rig and then the
distance, we want a buffer of 1
kilometre around the oil rig.
So we're going to choose the
kilometre option and type one in
this box here and then we have
some other options that we can
choose here.
So these are how the buffer is
going to end up looking.
The segments is how many lines
the tool is going to use to show
where to draw the buffer around
the feature five is the default
and that's fine for what we're
doing.
But if you're using the buffer
tool in the future you might
want to play around with this
and see what works best.
The end cap style we only need
to worry about when we have line
features, so we're working with
a Polygon, we don't need to
change this.
And then the join style.
This is how the buffer is
actually going to look, the
shape of it.
So we've got a round option,
we've got the mitre option which
is a square, and we've got the
bevel option which is like a
diamond.
The mitre limit we don't need to
worry about as it's only if we
set that as the join style.
And we also have a toggle box to
dissolve the result.
We don't need to worry about
this because we only have one
Polygon.
But if we had lots of features,
say lots of points, and when we
created the buffers they
overlapped, then this would
dissolve the boundaries between
those overlapping buffers.
But we don't need to worry about
this.
So all we need to do now is just
choose where to save the new
layer to and what to name it.
So we're going to click on these
three dots here and choose Save
to Geo Package.
Make sure it's going into that
Geo package we set up and we can
name it oil rig Buffer click,
OK, hit run and there on our
map, we can see the buffer
around the oil rig.
So let's zoom into this layer.
We can see the buffer around the
oil rig and we can also see that
it's overlapping with our
proposed No Take zone, which is
this green layer underneath.
So we're going to have to remove
this area of the No take zone,
but we'll do that in the next
video.
So for now, just remember to hit
save to save your progress.